You are listening to a message from First Baptist Church, Wichita Falls.
For more information about First Baptist, click the link in the show notes or go to fbcwf.org.
Well, hey, good morning.
Glad to be with all of you as Justin mentioned a minute ago.
My name is Sam and I am a student pastor in Dallas, Texas.
I'm so excited.
to be with all of you this morning, whether you're here at downtown campus, west campus, Shepard, wherever you are, I'm excited to be here.
I hope you're excited to be here too.
I am especially excited to be here because this is my home church, all right?
And so I grew up in this church, and this is a special thing for me.
to be able to come back because this is a place that, you know, invested in me, poured into me, spoke God's word into my life.
And there's people who are sitting here in this room that you have had a part in me being at this moment.
Like you maybe were a group leader for me in high school.
There are people in here that were a part of me being in kids ministry.
And so to come to a church that invested in me and poured into me and for me to then get to share with you this morning is really something
special for me.
I mean I grew up here also like Justin said served on staff here for a while and so there's been a lot of people from Pastor Bob and his leadership when I was on staff to Jerry Royal who is my youth pastor.
Justin and I were on staff together like there's people in this room who invest in me and so I'm excited to be with you and just real quick before we get going I've been a youth pastor for 20 years
And I know there's so many of you in this room that in some way you have invested in the next generation, whether you've had somebody come to your life group and they asked for you to give a scholarship to camp and you did that or they passed out wristbands before an event and you prayed for a student or for a leader or you rocked babies or you let a group of high school students, wherever it is, I know for all of you that have done that,
There's probably been a moment where you've asked like, hey, does this matter?
Is this making a difference?
Am I making any kind of impact?
And can I just tell you this?
The impact was definitely felt in my life.
And so I'm so incredibly thankful to this church and all they have done for me.
And so I'm excited to be with you.
Also, I'm not a very sappy emotional person.
So let's move on past that.
All right.
So I'm glad to be with you.
If you got your Bible this morning, open that up to the book of Matthew chapter seven, Matthew
Chapter seven.
Now, I know a lot of people, I know a lot of you, because like I said, I grew up here and I used to serve on staff, but I know there's a lot of you that I don't know.
So I just want to tell you a little bit about me and who I am and kind of where I'm coming from.
Grew up here in Wichita Falls, went to college, that's where I met my wife, Hannah.
We've been married for 18 years.
And we have two daughters.
We've got Molly Harper, who's the older daughter and Mayberry, who's the younger daughter.
And you know, when you have two,
two siblings, two kids, a lot of things are like a competition, right?
Like everything's kind of like him or, you know, she has this, she doesn't have this, all those types of things.
And when my kids were growing up, which they're still growing up, but when my kids were younger, Molly Harper, our oldest, started losing teeth really, really early.
And by early, I mean, when she was in preschool and like four years old, I was at work one day and I get a phone call that she had been running through the classroom
She had tripped and fallen, like four-year-olds do.
She had hit a metal toy and her tooth had flown out and crossed the room.
And so you can imagine your four-year-old, you get that phone call and you're a little bit stressed out.
I called Dr. Barrett, our dentist, and I was like, what should we do?
And he was like,
It's a baby tooth man.
You live with it.
She's just going to be gap tooth for a while.
All right.
So like, like it was just that she then about a year later was at a birthday party where they had a giant inflatable slide and you would climb to the top and you would slide down it and she got to the top and she wanted to jump really high.
And her other front tooth as she jumps, there's a net over the top for safety concerns because they're like, kids shouldn't do what my kid was doing.
She jumps, her tooth gets caught into that net and that tooth rips out.
And I'm like, again, like, oh my gosh, are you okay?
And she's like, best birthday party ever.
All right.
So like, like she, like at five years old, I already lost like all these teeth, all her other teeth started falling out.
She was just toothless.
We were on a soft food diet for a while.
Like it was just really fast with the teeth.
Maybe our youngest daughter though, she was pretty slow to the tooth losing game.
And you can imagine like the controversy that created.
All right.
She's like, ugh.
When am I going to lose teeth?
Dad, I want to lose teeth.
Mom, I want to lose teeth.
I want my real teeth.
I want to get rid of the baby teeth.
I want the real thing.
And so her teeth, like her front teeth, they started getting wiggly, loose, you know?
But for whatever reason, those suckers were like, no, we're here.
We're staying baby teeth for life.
And so she could literally, she would sit at the dinner table and be like, look how wiggly this tooth is.
And she would turn it almost 90 degrees, all right?
And everybody at the dinner table was like, oh my gosh, we don't, all right?
So it was like not kind of great.
But finally,
One day I go to pick her up from school and she goes in the bathroom and she's in there, I mean forever.
And you know, dad outside the girl's bathroom, you're just standing there and all the people are coming out.
It's super awkward, all right?
But she finally comes out and I'm kind of like, where is she?
I'm getting nervous.
She comes out and she's holding a wad of paper towels that are just drenched in blood.
And so as a dad, you're like, oh my gosh, what's happening here?
And she's like, check it out, dad.
And right in the middle is her first lost tooth, right?
She's like, I'm so pumped.
I got a real tooth.
And she points at her real tooth, her adult tooth.
And I'm not kidding.
It's already halfway in.
That's how much this baby tooth had been holding on.
Then, like a week later on her birthday, she loses the other one.
And so she's already like, you never could even tell that she'd lost teeth.
It just looks like she had really small front teeth.
That's how much they'd already come in.
And so that's what I want to talk to you about this morning.
Real teeth.
No, I'm just kidding.
See, inside of us, there's something inside of us that we long for, the permanent and the real and the lasting, over the temporary, the juvenile and the momentary.
There's something inside of us, like my kids, they were like, man, I want those real teeth.
I want to move past this stage of baby, of baby teeth and move on to the permanent stage.
And I want that so that I can be more grown up, whatever it is.
And there's something that's true inside all of us and our hearts that we desire that for ourselves.
And what we're gonna look at is, we're gonna look at, in our hearts, we long for that when it comes to the gospel, when it comes to our faith and the message of Jesus.
So let's do this.
I'm kind of a traditionalist.
Let's stand in the honor of the reading of God's word, if you don't mind.
We're gonna read Matthew seven.
We're gonna start in verse 15, and we're gonna read
through the end of verse 23.
It says this.
Beware of false prophets.
This is Jesus talking, that's why the words are in red.
Beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves.
You will recognize them by their fruits.
Are grapes gathered from thorn bushes or figs from thistles?
So every healthy tree bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears bad fruit.
A healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good fruit.
Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.
Thus you will recognize them by their fruits.
Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven.
On that day, many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in your name,
And then I will declare to them, I never knew you, depart from me, you workers of lawlessness.
May God bless the reading of his word.
You may be seated.
So let's just kind of set up what's going on here and what's taking place.
Jesus, he's speaking.
And at this moment that we kind of pick up, he's speaking what's called the Sermon on the Mount.
It's the longest recorded sermon that we have of Jesus.
There's lots of snippets of sermons we have.
This is the longest, like, hey, recorded sermon.
And in this sermon, he says all sorts of things that we're very familiar with, and we've heard things like, hey, blessed are the meek, blessed are the kind, blessed are the merciful, blessed are the poor.
He talks about being salt and light.
He talks about prayer.
He shares the Lord's prayer.
He does all these things that are a lot of things that are about, like, hey, what it really looks like to live the Christian life.
What it really looks like to live a life where we follow
Jesus, now there are some difficult things he says in there.
He talks about, hey, you've heard it said, don't murder.
But I would tell you, even if you look at someone with anger in your heart, you have murdered them in spirit.
Like there's some tough teachings in there.
But for the most part, it's kind of like a lot of things that encourage his followers to be like, yes, I'm all in.
I want to follow you.
But then he gets to the end and it's almost like he makes a bit of a course change.
And he suddenly says, hey, beware of false prophets.
For us to really kind of understand what he's saying right there, we've kind of got to do a dive into the culture and the moment of history that Jesus is speaking this into.
So I know we're all, you know, a little bit kind of in the fog of Christmas and all that.
This just take about five minutes.
We got to do a little bit of Bible nerd time and all that kind of stuff.
But let's dive in to understand this moment of history that Jesus is sitting in.
Jesus is sitting in this moment of history where the idea of prophets and messiahs are everywhere.
Okay.
Israel at this moment is experiencing this time of really high national pride.
If you think back to the story of the Old Testament and everything had come before this, the Jewish people, they had been in captivity in Egypt.
Moses had brought them out.
They'd gone to the Promised Land, got a given them the Promised Land.
They'd begun to build this nation.
Eventually they had a kingdom.
They had David, they had Saul, they had Solomon.
They had built all of this and they had some wealth, they had some prosperity, they had some influence in the region.
And God blessed them.
But what happened is they kept turning their back on God, they kept turning their back on God, so finally God gave them over and they were conquered, they were destroyed, and they were carried off into captivity.
And so they get carried off into captivity.
It's the lowest moment of Israel that they've had until that point.
And they're carried off into captivity, but over time the people that conquered them get conquered, and they get conquered, and so on.
And so they begin to move back to the promised land, to the holy land of the land of Israel, and they start to rebuild.
And they rebuild the wall around Jerusalem.
They rebuild the temple.
And as they're doing that, you can imagine they're like, hey, we're back.
Like God's bringing us back.
God's going to rebuild this nation.
God's going to rebuild our kingdom.
He's going to do all of these things for us.
And so at this moment, the only thing that they see standing in the way is their new oppressors, and that's the Romans.
That's who was overseeing them at the moment.
And if you remember back to high school, middle school history, the Romans, they were all about Greek culture.
Greek art, Greek music, Greek architecture, and Greek religion, which, again, going back to high school, middle school, if you remember Greek mythology, Zeus, all those guys, and the Jewish people didn't like that.
All right, so hang on, hang with me, I'm almost there.
So into that moment, all of these Jewish people are thinking, man,
The kingdom of Israel is about to be back.
It's about to be restored.
And all that's standing in the way is that we need a Messiah to lead us to overthrow these Roman oppressors.
The thing is, they weren't looking for a Messiah to save them from their sins.
They were looking for a Messiah to save them from the Romans.
And it was thick in the culture.
It was not unusual for really conservative Jewish families to leave an empty seat open at dinner
for the Messiah in case he showed up.
Some of you have tried this for your children like, hey, maybe if we leave an open space, they'll find a spouse.
It hadn't worked out.
That kind of idea, right?
They're leaving this here thinking, hey, at any moment, the Messiah could return.
As a matter of fact, there were all these people that were showing up on the scenes claiming to be Messiah, but as they did, what they were offering the people wasn't salvation from sin, but instead salvation from the Romans.
Like just for example, there was this guy that was called the Egyptian.
He was surprisingly from Egypt, and he came out to the wilderness outside Jerusalem, and he said to the people, hey, I'm building an army to overthrow the Romans.
And what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna build this army, and God has spoken to me, and what's gonna happen is because I'm the Messiah, I'm gonna pray to God eight times, and on the eighth time that I pray, he's gonna tear down the walls of Jerusalem, our army is gonna march in, we're gonna overcome the Romans, and we're gonna defeat them.
The problem is that the Romans got wind of this and they marched their army that was stationed in Jerusalem out there and they slaughtered him and all 4,000 of his followers.
He had gathered 4,000 followers, which is a lot of people today.
It's even more so 2,000 years ago.
So here's why I'm telling you all this, like this idea of Messiah.
There were messiahs running all over the place.
There were prophets running all over the place.
There were all of these people that were claiming to be prophets and they were claiming to have gospels.
We think of the phrase of gospel as being about Jesus and something that Jesus introduced, but in reality, the phrase gospel was something that was introduced by Caesar Augustus, somebody that we've been talking about a lot right now because of Christmas.
He's the one that called the census that caused Mary and Joseph to go back to Bethlehem.
And it was the good news, that's what gospel means, the good news of Caesar that said, hey, his peace, if you remember the phrase,
The peace of Rome would spread across the whole world and bring peace to the world.
That was the good news of the Gospel of Caesar.
Now, interestingly enough, his peace that he was bringing was brought at the edge of a sword as his army marched into your town.
But still, the idea that there were lots of Gospels, there were lots of paths, there were lots of things that people could believe in was prevalent.
And that's probably why right before this, listen to what Jesus said.
In verse 13, it's not gonna be on the screens, I'll just read it.
Jesus said, enter by the narrow gate, for the gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many, for the gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life, and those who find it are few.
In other words, Jesus said, hey, there's all these different thoughts and ideas and prophets and all of these different things, but what you need to know is there's only one path that leads to eternal life.
He's talking about the exclusivity or the fact that He is the only way to salvation from our sins.
He is the only way for access to God that He is the only true way of faith.
And He's saying most people are headed on to a path that leads to destruction.
And piggybacking off that, He says, hey, because most people are on the wide path, you need to beware of false prophets.
And so the first thing I hope we see this morning, number one, is that we need to be real in our faith.
about the dangers of fake gospels, to be real in our faith about the danger of fake gospels.
All of these prophets that Jesus is referencing are out there giving gospels and giving messages that build up not the kingdom of God
but rather the kingdom of men.
They were interested in building a kingdom for their nation and for their country with a physical throne and Jesus shows up and says, no, I'm building a spiritual kingdom to save you in your soul.
And here's what I would tell you, look right here.
It's no different for us today because here's what we know about our culture.
In our culture, we tend to think of over the last 50 years that Christianity is on a bit of a decline.
Every research study will tell us that over the last 50 years, church attendance is down, people who identify as Christians are down, all of these like membership in churches is down.
Now there's a lot of studies that you could look at that say, hey, among like really young people, that's actually increasing and that's very encouraging.
But on the whole, we see our country and our nation and our culture as having a downward trajectory for Christianity.
But here's something interesting.
Spirituality is actually at an all-time high.
As a matter of fact, in 2023, Pew did a research study that said seven out of 10 Americans describe themselves as spiritual.
That's 70%.
You can't get 70% of Americans to agree on anything.
What are the best fast food French fries?
The answer is McDonald's, but I get 70% of y'all are gonna say something else.
Y'all are wrong, all right?
Like, we can't get 70% of people to agree on anything.
According to Gallup, in the same year, 82% of Americans have some type of spiritual belief
system.
Man, like people are flocking to spiritual ideas and what they see is spiritual truth.
And in that, when they did these research studies, they kind of drilled down and they asked people like, hey, what is it about these belief systems and this spirituality that attracts you?
And they mentioned things like, hey, it gives me higher meaning, gives me purpose, it grounds me, it allows me to be connected to something bigger and deeper, it allows me to overcome depression, anxiety, abuse, all these real world problems.
Here's what I get out of that.
And here's what we should see.
That when Jesus said, hey, why is the path that lead to destruction?
And there's a lot of people on it and very few are on the path that leads to eternal life.
And so because of that, you need to be aware of the false prophets.
Hey, in the same moment, like in the same truth,
In this moment in time, there are so many competing ideas of what is true and what is right and what we should believe and what we should value and what we should care about.
And all of these things come to us and it's up to us to decipher and decide, hey, where is this really taking me?
And what is this truth?
Where is it?
Is it fake?
Is it real?
And here's the difficult part of it.
So often all of these messages that we get are caked and baked in some kind of biblical language or churchy language that make it even more difficult and more hard for us to decipher whether they are real or what is true.
So what's changed isn't whether or not there are false prophets and fake gospels, what changes how subtle that they come at us today.
And so into this Jesus says, hey, beware of false prophets that we need to be real
about the danger of fake Gospels.
But he continues on because, see, here's the interesting thing.
For every fake gospel that exists, there obviously has to be some sort of prophet or some sort of teacher of it that is pushing it, teaching it, espousing it, pushing us and guiding us to it.
These false prophets move us off of the true path, the narrow path, the narrow gate, and over to the wide path that leads to
destruction, and so what we have to be doing in our lives is to be real about what shapes us.
That's the second thing to notice this morning.
Be real about what shapes us.
So one of the things that's maybe the most different and the things that's changed the most is that we live in a time where we hear the most sermons of any generation that's gone before us in all of history.
So I grew up in this church, and when I was growing up, we got one sermon a week.
We would go over to the East Sanctuary on Sunday morning.
That was the only sanctuary we had.
We would hear the sermon on Sunday morning, and that was the one sermon that we heard all week.
Now, if you were spiritual like our family, we listened to the Christian radio station during the week, and Dr. Charles Stanley would be on, and we would hear his voice all week when we were driving around town.
Although I'll be honest, I wasn't paying super close attention because I was a kid.
But anyways, those were the only sermons that we heard.
And then after time got on, you know, our family kind of got a little more into it and we started going to Sunday night church, all right?
Because we were very spiritual, all right?
We were some of the few.
And we were over there on Sunday nights and it was like you heard the big sermon on Sunday morning and then, you know, the kind of teaching sermon on Sunday night got older and I started going to student ministry youth group and we would go across the street and Jerry would preach to us a sermon on Wednesday nights.
And so like at the peak, when I was in high school, we were here in three sermons a week.
It's a lot, all right?
But the reality is, and here's what I want to talk to you about.
This is the real part of the message.
We live in a time where we are being preached to almost nonstop constantly every day.
We're being preached through our phones.
We're being preached to through social media.
We're being preached to through our televisions.
We're being preached to through podcasts that we listen to.
We are hearing more messages and more sermons because of the ease of access that we have.
And I don't mean you got online and you listen to it
full-on sermon.
I mean that we just get bombarded with all these different ideas and thoughts
and value systems and things about, hey, what we should care about and what we should buy and what we should tolerate and what we shouldn't tolerate, what we should be mad about, what we shouldn't be mad about, what it is that our lives should be about, how we should arrange our finances in every part of our lives.
And here's the thing, companies have spent billions upon billions, tens of billions of dollars, creating all of these algorithms and all these types of things that basically say, hey, if you look at something on your phone for more than about three seconds, they trigger that, they know that, and then they're like, hey, let's feed them more.
Let's feed them more, man.
Let's give them more of that.
And they give us more and more and more of it.
And it pushes us even further and further and further into that thought process.
And as we consume that over and over and over again, it begins to change and take root on our heads.
And what research would tell us is because we're seeing so much of it over and over and over again, it begins to literally rewire the neurological pathways in our mind to begin to make us think different.
And as we begin to think different, we begin to believe different.
And as we begin to leave different, we begin to act different.
And we are preached to you more than any other generation and so often we don't even notice it.
Like, can I tell you what the worst moment of my week is?
Full disclosure.
The worst moment of my week is Sunday mornings at 8 a.m. And you're like, dude, you're a pastor.
What pastor doesn't like Sunday mornings?
Well, I love church.
I love being at church.
I've given my life being at church.
I don't like Sunday mornings at 8 a.m. because I get a notification on my phone called screen time.
I don't know if you get this.
It's where your phone says, hey, this is how much you were on your phone this week.
And it's pretty depressing.
And I'm like, gosh, I know I got to get on here for work and do all those types of things.
But when I see that number, I'm like, I can't believe that I was on my phone that much every day this week.
And what I usually do is I justify by saying, oh, I accidentally let my phone to my kids.
They were on it for like 12 hours.
And then I'm like, oh, well, is that any better?
But anyways, like it shows me
And it can show all of us that we are allowing things to shape us.
And there are things that aren't necessary.
There's nothing evil or wrong about them.
But when we don't filter them and think through, hey, what am I allowing to shape me?
They begin to take root and hold in our lives without us even realizing it.
Because we understand that the things that we allow around us and the things that we allow closest to us really begin to shape us.
I'd tell it to you like this.
Um, my two daughters, they go to a summer camp every year.
They go to canna cuck and they went this past summer, man, it's great camp, Christian camp.
We love it.
It's a great experience for our kids.
And when we went to pick them up this summer, it was their first summer to go for two weeks, which is the longest they, you know, we've ever sent them away from us and all that kind of stuff.
And so it was like this big moment.
We show up to pick them up at the end of camp and they're excited and we're excited, you know, big hugs and all that type of stuff.
And we're like, Oh, how was it?
How was camp?
And they're like, bro, it was so good.
We're like, bro.
I am your father, all right?
Like, what are you talking about?
And then we were like, okay, show us around the camp and show us everything.
What was your favorite thing?
And they're like, bro, you got to see the water slide.
I was like, again, dad, all right?
Like, that's who this is.
And so we're, they're walking around there like, oh yeah, and our bros were up there and we were doing this on the swing and bro.
And so then we get in the car to drive home and I'm not kidding you as they talked to us and told us about camp.
I think I heard the word bro somewhere around 3,750,000 times on the way home.
All right?
And it was a six, seven hour drive from the camp back to our house.
We drive up to the house, turn the car off.
They go inside to see the pets and all that stuff.
I sit in the car.
I need a moment of non-bro time.
All right?
And I just remember looking at my wife and saying, Hannah, we dropped off two princesses and we picked up two bros. All right?
I don't know what happened.
But I mean, at the same time, I knew exactly what had happened.
Obviously, they've been camp all week, and somebody somewhere was like, hey, this is the week I'm going to say bro a lot.
And it just began to fester in the whole camp.
And then at the end of two weeks, everybody's saying it.
And it makes total sense for us, right?
Because like, you know how it is with kids and how they rub off on each other, how they affect one each other, how their language begins to be the same and all those types of things.
Man.
We tend to think that that ends when we get older, but the reality is that we are still deeply influenced by the things that we allow to speak into our life with repetition and into the depths of our hearts.
And sometimes we allow it to happen without really ever filtering it and thinking about how it's affecting us.
Now listen to what Jesus said.
He says, beware of the false prophets.
They come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they're ravenous wolves.
That's an interesting statement.
When I first read that when I was growing up, I was like, oh, well, he means they come and they look like sheep.
But actually what he's saying is like, shepherds at the time, they would usually like shear their sheep, you know, cut off all their wool and then they would go and make clothes out of that wool.
And they would do that for a couple of reasons.
One is it was like, you know, it's cheap, shepherds didn't have a lot of money, cheap clothing.
Another reason was
It allowed them, like, they put these clothing on that's in sheep's wool and then the sheep, who aren't very smart, would look at them and be like, oh, this is another sheep, they just look funny and I'll follow them.
And so, when he says that you're coming to you in sheep's clothing, what he actually is saying is, have they not coming to you looking like sheep and members of the flock, they're coming to you looking like shepherds and ones of authority?
And so often what happens is we see people and we think, oh, they have authority because of their influence and their reach on social media because they're on TV, because they have a pot.
And I'm not disliking any of these things.
I'm going to leave here today and I'm going to listen to a podcast the whole way home.
All right?
Like, that's what's part of our culture.
But when we let these things influence us, we need to do exactly what Jesus says.
And he says, beware of false prophets.
And verse 16, he says, hey, you're going to recognize them?
by their fruit.
You're going to recognize them by their fruit.
Now when we hear that, there's a lot of things that fruit could mean.
Fruit could mean like, hey, do their actions really show Christian actions?
Do their words really show Christian words?
Does their life really show the life of Christ?
But another thing that it means is does their teaching line up with the teaching of Scripture that we know?
See what I think he's really talking about here is that we would have some holy discernment
and who we allow to speak into our lives, that we would have a depth of our understanding and our knowledge of the gospel and God's truth that comes from Scripture so that when we receive messages from other people, whatever it comes from, that we would be able to filter that and know, like, hey, that doesn't really pass the smell test because of what I know from Scripture.
Hey, I understand what they're saying, but when I look at Scripture, maybe it's a little bit different and it shades it a little different.
And it allows us to really understand, hey, do I
have a depth of knowledge of understanding of God's Word to filter what it is that's shaping me.
That's what discernment ultimately is.
And it comes from spending time right here in God's Word.
And it comes from being discipled by God's Word and His truth rather than being discipled by this thing right here.
And it comes from understanding and spending time in places like this, a Bible-believing, Bible-teaching church where the Word of God is poured out in so many different ways, rather than just being filtered and spoken to and shaped by a culture outside in the world.
And so what is it that we allow to shape of us?
He calls us to be real in what we allow to shape us.
And then the third thing, he goes on to say this, verse 21,
Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven.
On that day, many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and cast out demons in your name and do many mighty works in your name?
And I will declare them, I never knew you, apart from me, you workers of lawlessness.
Can I be honest?
If I'm to tell you a teaching of Jesus that makes me the most uncomfortable, it's probably that one.
Jesus speaks this to people that had grown up in the most religious culture that had ever existed, like the Jewish culture where everything was tied to their faith and their following of God.
And he says, hey,
you need to actually be careful because there's going to be people that feel like, hey, I'm good with God because they have spent so much time in and among the things of God, but they've never really adjusted anything within their heart to truly follow Him.
And if we're honest, for those of us who live somewhere like I do in the Bible Belt of America, that's very easy for us to do.
And he's basically saying if the first part, if the first few verses
about a false prophets or about being aware of what shapes us from the outside.
This is about being real about what shapes us from the inside and being real, point number three, being real about saving faith.
Being real about saving faith.
I've been, the last eight years I've been serving at a church in Knoxville, Tennessee.
I just moved from there about five or six months ago and it was a great church.
Love that church.
So many great things about that church.
But something interesting happened while we were there.
Like there were so many students
who we would talk to and they would say, you know, like, Sam, I feel like God's done something in my life.
God's done something in my heart.
I want to get baptized.
Oh, that's so awesome.
Let's talk about that.
And as I would talk about it, I'd ask them the question like, well, tell me about when it is that you became a Christian.
And here was the number one statement that I would hear from them over and over again.
Oh, well, I've always been a Christian.
I'd always be like, okay, wait, hang on.
Like we got to talk about that.
You can't always be a Christian like, well, I was born and I grew up in a Christian house.
And we would have to have the conversation like, hey, just because you're born into a Christian household and a Christian family does not like, that's not something that's inherited.
That's something that you do on your own.
And I would hear that a lot.
I would also hear things a lot like, hey, I want to get baptized and I'll be like, okay, well, awesome.
Tell me when you place your faith in Jesus, and they would tell me, and they'd say, oh, you know, is it camp, or it's on a Wednesday night, or it's on a Sunday morning, or something.
I was like, OK, that's great.
And they're like, but you know, I was baptized when I was like five.
Like, well, why were you baptized when you were five?
Like, well, you know, that was really something that my mom, my dad, that's important to them, so I want to do that.
And I'm glad that was important to their parents.
But here's what I think I saw so often in those students.
They had confused being around the things of God and being in the things of God with actually being a relationship with God themselves.
And so this is a moment that Jesus warns us to not just look at what is influencing from the outside and being careful that there are fake prophets and fake gospels outside of us that can shape us and take us along to a path that we don't want to be on, a path that's wide and leads to destruction, but there's also a fake prophet that can live inside of us that's ourselves.
where we can lie to ourselves and convince ourselves that we're in a place with God that we're not really at.
And so as we kind of are in this fun, you know, it's like, this is the funny Sunday, right?
It's the Sunday where we had Christmas.
We're about to have a new year.
You're all the like super spiritual ones that came to church even on today.
All right.
Like I'm pumped you're here.
Like this is a funny Sunday right before we step into a new year.
But if I can make an encouragement for you as we begin to step into a new year,
It's to be real in your faith this year.
To really think about, hey, what am I allowing to shape me and mold me and take me somewhere in my faith?
Who am I allowing to influence me and speak into me?
And do we have the depth of the gospel in our hearts?
Do we have the knowledge of the gospel in our hearts to really filter that out and be like, oh man, maybe that's not really exactly what God's word teaches.
Maybe they have a good heart, but that's not really where we're called to go.
be real about what we're telling our own hearts and the truth that we're preaching to ourselves.
You've been listening to a message from First Baptist Church, Wigital Falls.
For more information about First Baptist, including gathering times and locations, click the link in the show notes or go to fbcwf.org.
We'll see you next week.